Other Advantage Systems
=======================

This article reviews other systems for achieving a positive expected value (EV)
for the blackjack player.

Card Counting
-------------

Several authors have discussed blackjack card counting techniques to create a
player advantage. These techniques keep a count of remaining cards in the shoe
and then estimate if the next hand is likely to win or lose. The player then
varies their bet based on these odds. Additionally, some techniques also
prescribe altered player behavior based on the count. The expected edge for the
player depends on the number of decks, the size of the count system and the
exact rules offered by the house. These figures assume flawless adherence to the
technique by the player.

[TODO CHECK AND OFFER SOME EXAMPLES FROM GRIFFIN’S BOOK]

-   8 decks, hard 16, 4:1 bet range, blackjack pays 3:2, open play, one count
    (“hi-lo”) — EV +3.12% (check numbers)

-   6 decks, ...

-   4 decks

-   2 decks

-   Show best possible rules with a 10-count system

[TODO add chart of random walk — high bet when positive, low bet when negative]

Team Dynamics
-------------

At the beginning of each shoe, card-counting players have no more information
than baseline players. Naturally this results in a negative expected value (EV)
situation. Normally, the player must wait for a favorable condition to begin
making large bets and then waste money sitting at the table until then. In a
team situation, a scouter watches the table and waits for the game to become
favorable. Then he signals the player to join and informs them of the counts.
This strategy is fully incremental to the above card counting techniques and may
add up to EV x.xx%. See the MIT blackjack team.

Shuffle Tracking
----------------

Aces are favorable to the player because of the asymmetry of a player making
blackjack (pays 3:2) and a dealer making blackjack (loses 1:1). Players may
remember if there are particularly many aces during a specific part of the shoe.
Then they may closely watch the shuffle and then cut the shoe so that these aces
come first. The player then bets heavy at the start of the new shoe because of
the expected positive EV.

References
----------

\* Peter Griffin — Blackjack strategies

\* MIT team — [TO ADD]

[Call Mike Aponte for technical details and to fill in data, references]
